when we're talking about social media if
you are living a great life a really
great life
a life that most people can't live you
are going to
uh you are going to attract
vegans and countless non-vegans probably
one of the best things you could do
in terms of activism is get very rich
and famous
live it up and influence your tens of
millions of followers
to go vegan i'm striving to do that
hello everyone
on today's adventure of living our best
life
we're taking the floatie in the ocean
you know this is why i i switched to
pick up artist stuff because as soon as
i am
honest with a girl there's no game
involved
as soon as i am i'm straight and like uh
straightforward with a girl it never
works out for me but when i play some
game
it's it works out great and i hate that
i hate being a manipulator i hate having
to [ __ ]
play a stupid game and like some some of
my friends they're just like really
really handsome or whatever
and they don't ever need to try you know
like they got natural game or whatever
but for me it's like
well when you're fat it's like playing
the game of the dating game on hard mode
you know
you can still do it but you're going to
put in a lot more effort you know
and anyway that really hurt you know
that really hurt like that was like the
worst thing
that i've heard in a while and then we
went to like a movie
and it was it was cool it was nice but
you know the third time
uh i was like hey let's hang out and
like yeah she just uh
she was dodging me
you just said like oh i'm busy and i'm
like you literally just said you haven't
been busy for months
i'm just like oh wow you got busy really
quickly huh
anyway i i tell her i was like okay like
trump card there we go
hey uh why don't we spend christmas
together because christmas is a couple's
day
and uh she she immediately sends me back
a message being like you know i told you
this when we broke up
but i see you more as like a family
member or like you know somebody who i
really care about
but i'm not interested in romantically
and i'm like oh
bam at the same time i like if i want to
go on adventures with people i got to
lose some weight you know i've been
talking about losing weight forever
and i'm like you know what like i'm one
of the reasons i'm going to the adhd
pill doctor right now is to get those
pills because like i have been
[Music]
for the most part been being a good boy
like i still only eat once a day or
whatever but i am drinking a lot of my
calories with soda
and everything like that and i know that
if i have these adh pills
they only they not only help me think
clearly but they're also appetite
suppressants so
i'm gonna just show her like look i lost
some weight
i got some better views on youtube and
it's not it's not like i need her
approval i just want her to know
i just want her to know that i did this
like you know just to be like
because she saw me recently she knows
that like like
she knows that i'm fat i mean i'm just
saying like i don't want to lose weight
just to get her approval but i want to
see i'm like i have an actual deadline
now
i'm like okay i got some time before
christmas
let's do this let's let's try to make
this happen you know i mean
that's what i try to tell mark though
i'm like he's never studied pick up
artist stuff
and if he if he had tried picklebart and
stuff he knows that it's just a numbers
game
it's just a numbers game and also you
can't let all this rejection get to you
like i can't tell you how many weeks i
spent over the last few months
researching
for some way to live in bali and in
australia that was in my price range
because almost nothing was in my price
range
and so i'm trying to like save 25 bucks
a week here and there and
i'm spending hours and hours on this
every day for weeks
if i was a little bit more comfortable i
could have focused on a lot more
productive things for the animal rights
movement
we grow up as children entertained
by glittering images of adults
and we find in these appealing illusions
ideas about a possible future
that we might live ourselves models
for the type of adults we ourselves
might
one day want to be
as children we find role models even in
movie villains
not just movie heroes little girls
pick up their father's copy of playboy
or the victoria's secret catalog and
embarrass and horrify their parents by
saying
that's what i want to be when i grow up
and
little boys see movies about serial
killers
and finding them role models also this
is a very fundamental
human instinct some of us
overcome it in later years and some of
us
hold on to this habit of mind right
and whether we look at instagram or we
look at
youtube or we read the most refined
philosophical and political literature
imaginable we continue
to find in those sources glittering
images
of someone we wish we could be
think it's natural that a great deal of
the response to and criticism of
james aspie focuses on this gap
between the illusion and the reality but
for the purposes of this video
although interesting that's a
distraction from the major theme
i want to discuss here okay and there is
a gap there is a gap
you just heard him explain to you that
he aspires
to present himself on instagram and on
youtube
as a multi-millionaire as leading a
multi-millionaire's
lifestyle and you heard him say also
that he just spent
several weeks scraping the bottom of the
barrel
to try to save 25 a week on rent
because he can't afford to stay in a
nice hotel he can't afford to rent an
apartment he can't afford to stay in an
airbnb
he's telling you that his form of
political activism
as he understands it is to project
this appealing image of himself as
living a multi-millionaire's lifestyle
and at the same time he's asking for
your donations
he's asking for your support and your
help so that he can live that lifestyle
that is fundamentally fake
because he literally can't afford to pay
his
own rent and the other hand
as he himself has said many times no
quote him he does not want to buckle
down
and work a normal job he wants to devote
all of his time
to this very strange social role of
being the purveyor
of an illusion of an idealized adulthood
somebody you might want to be
i think what we ought to be directing
our attention towards instead
is the gap between the creator of that
illusion
and the consumer right we all know who's
selling
but who's buying and why now
i am a content creator myself i am
to a very real extent a creator of and a
purveyor of
illusions myself it's very easy
if you are a creator to only relate to
and care about other creators and to
imagine your audience
as if they consisted of people who are
in that same category with you who just
happen to not upload
to youtube and instagram it's very easy
if you're a fitness youtuber and you
post pictures of themselves
shirtless on instagram to only be paying
attention to
only listening to only getting feedback
from
other fitness youtubers other
half naked instagram icons those are the
people you may be
emulating competing with communicating
with
right those are the direct messages you
respond to
and you start to think of your audience
in that same way
as if they relate to you the way that
you relate
to your own competition or your own
colleagues in that category
of content creators and that's not true
at all
that's not who's buying
bread is not delicious
bread only tastes delicious when you're
starving
hungry
it's people like tkyo sam who i quoted
there
who are buying these illusions it's
people who are
desperately trying to lose weight
and failing that become the followers
of someone presenting them with this
promise
of a person they could be and a
lifestyle they can
lead it's people who have utterly failed
to have this kind of seemingly stable
relationship
with someone else who's not afraid to
walk around nine tenths naked in public
someone who's
objectively in good physical shape you
know it's people who
yearn for that it's people who lack that
right they out of their pathos
become your followers you are in a very
real
sense exploiting their misery
and their failure even though from your
perspective
you think you're just sharing your
success and most of what you hear back
most of the voices you care about are
other people in the same
sales department generating and selling
similar illusions
on the internet who are giving you the
thumbs up and saying good job
hey i liked your video at the beach i
just did one myself in hawaii oh hey i
liked your cooking video
oh hey i noticed you're now selling a
pair of track pants along with your
t-shirts
check out my shop i did this so tell me
who did you get to make those track
pants i'd like to do something similar
it's very easy to have this kind of
selective blindness to who your audience
really is
because the people you're communicating
with or other
content creators in the same categories
who share
your same assumptions
of convenience i did 210
push-ups yesterday and i went for a very
nice walk
with my girlfriend down to see the ocean
hand-in-hand imagine how different
my youtube channel would be and how
different my relationship
to my audience would be if that was
exactly what i had filmed
exactly what i had carefully edited and
then presented both here on youtube
and on instagram us cooking us smiling
and walking hand in hand
perhaps us seeing the ocean and the
setting sun
this can be done all right there are
sides of my life
that i consider shallow and meaningless
but that are in a sense
ripe for the same kind of exploitation
that james aspie engages in with his own
life
now why don't i do that it's not just
that it's no good for me and no good for
my girlfriend
i actually sincerely believe that it's
no good for my audience
what's remarkable and worth knowing
about my life with melissa
is not how she looks in a swimsuit
or how we might look together hand in
hand
by the sunset filmed at just the right
angle it's much
more meaningful for you to know that i'm
in a relationship with someone
who read aristotle that i'm in a
relationship with someone
who read thucydides and that she read
those books
with me and that we learned that stuff
together and that whatever it is we're
reading
and whatever it is we're discussing day
by day
and day after day we are learning
about history and politics and
philosophy
and languages together
not only would i say that the books
i read yesterday are more meaningful
than the number of push-ups i would even
go so far as to say
the books i didn't read yesterday
the books i haven't had time to read the
ideas
about the future the research projects
the reading etc
that melissa and i have talked about
doing but didn't
get to doing even that is much more
worthy of discussion and sharing with
the audience
than the details of what we ate how much
exercise we got
or you know hallmark card style romantic
occasions such as walking along the
beach together but my point
in this video is not about keeping it
real
my point is not about closing the gap
between that illusion and reality
my point is to question if this is the
illusion you're creating
who's buying really think about who it
is
that lacks what you're selling and what
the impact is going to be
on their lives of you creating and
sharing this illusion
i'm trying to share with my audience the
most profound
and most meaningful parts of my life
including the most meaningful aspects
of my relationship with my girlfriend
including the fact that someone who came
into my life
and immediately became like another
mother to my daughter
has this meaningful relationship with my
whole family has this positive role my
intellectual life
in my creative life i'm trying to share
that with you
but in so doing i'm also concealing
all kinds of shallow things that are
equally real
i really did do over 200 workshops
yesterday we really do go for walks on
the beach
right it's not the difference between
reality and illusion there's a role of
selection here and what you
end up with no matter how honest you are
is nevertheless
a kind of illusion and it is possible
genuinely that james aspy has another
much more meaningful side to his life
that he has concealed to us
that because he is on this benighted
mission to try to market himself as a
millionaire
while being flat broke and asking for
donations that while he is trying to
feature
and put forward this unbelievably
shallow life
it's certainly possible that he has read
several books in the last few months
and that he could have some kind of
meaningful discussion about what he's
been reading
i actually do not presume that what
james aspie is sharing with the public
on social media
is all that he has to share no i think
he is consciously and intentionally
making this decision
as part of the money-making venture he
has already described to you
in his own words the problem is who's
buying water has no flavor at all
when you've already had enough to drink
and when you're starving and thirsty
it's the most delicious thing in the
world there are people who are
so starved for self-esteem there are
people
who are so starved for human love and
affection
that they look up to and worship people
like james aspie
and thousands of others who are playing
the same game
there are people who are so starved for
any sense of hope in their own careers
in their own economic situation
so starved for the possibility of one
day
just taking a beach vacation that they
reach out for and yearn for these
illusions
that he's presenting on the internet and
that is the type of influence
he is trying to yield as a so-called
social media influencer and the most
tragic
part of this analysis of all is
i know i can't escape from the same
formula myself no matter how
erudite or morally uplifting i may feel
my relationship with my girlfriend is if
i commodify it in the same way
who is going to reach out for it it's
going to be people
who precisely are lacking those same
things the equivalent things in their
life that i am presenting to them
that i have in abundance and so i'm
trying to like
save 25 bucks a week here and there and
i'm spending hours and hours on this
every day for weeks
if i was a little bit more comfortable i
could have focused on a lot more
productive things for the animal rights
movement
james what if you're never going to be
comfortable enough
james if you're watching this video
ask yourself seriously in the last five
years
were you never financially comfortable
enough
to take that next step you keep talking
about you keep
hinting at you keep alluding to
and from our perspective for us
sitting in the audience watching
do you think we perceive you as someone
who has just not been financially
comfortable enough to take that next
step
to start taking activism seriously i
know that from your perspective
you just need the audience to support
you a little bit more
so that you can live this millionaire
rock star lifestyle that you
think will empower and enable you to
change the world
but i'm asking you to see it from our
perspective
because you keep saying if only people
could donate more money
so that you could be a little bit more
comfortable there's this tremendous
change
you could make and from the audience
perspective it's reasonable to say
this man will never be comfortable
enough if he's living a millionaire
lifestyle he's going to want donations
so he can lead a multi-millionaire
lifestyle
if he's eating with a silver spoon he's
going to be out here
looking for money so that he can upgrade
to platinum
and if not that then gold james
if you're watching this video i want to
ask you honestly
what if you will never be comfortable
enough
what if you will never have enough fame
what if you will
never have enough money to suit yourself
you have put yourself in a position
where it never
can be enough you're trying to compete
with
some of the richest and most beautiful
and most shallow people in the world
so that you can present an illusion so
glittering
so appealing to the hopeless and broken
heart of the earth
that you become in your own eyes
an influencer